So what does it mean that two waves or many waves interfere with each other, what is interference?
It is extremely important that you understand, at least intuitively, what interference is about.
It is so important because it is the physical effect that stands behind a lot of phenomena in all quantum
physics.
Without the wave description in the interference of, so to speak, wavy phenomena, almost nothing
can be said in quantum physics.
Let us see how light is conceived of as an oscillating electromagnetic field and how these fields interfere
with each others.
And before that, let us illustrate what a field is in physics at all.
As a first example, we can take also a force field.
We are more accustomed with that of the force of gravity.
The gravitational field that surrounds a planet like the Earth is a region of space where gravity acts
upon material bodies which are distributed around the earth.
Uh, in empty space for, for instance, the moon interacts with the earth's gravitational field and
also the reverse is true, that the earth feels, so to speak, a force originating from the gravitational
field of the moon.
So these are two mutually mutually interacting gravitational fields.
Also, other forces acting upon objects exist, namely the electric and magnetic forces.
The actions of which on the surrounding space can be visualized with the field in motion as well.
What distinguishes the electric and magnetic field forces, fields or just field forces from the gravitational
one is that the former can be both attractive as well as a repulsive.
In contrast to the latter, the gravity which we know can be only attractive.
Electric and magnetic forces are therefore characterized, characterized by a polarity, positive and
negative electric charges north and south magnetic poles.
Well, a detailed description of these fees would require a lengthy elaboration that is not essential
for our purposes here.
It may only be highlighted that when an electric field changes in time oscillates, for instance, periodically
oscillating electric field.
This always induces a corresponding magnetic field.
It is, in fact, called the phenomenon of electric electromagnetic induction.
The other way around is through also an oscillating magnetic field always gives rise to a corresponding
oscillating electric field.
The two never exist separately when one or the other varies in time, if there is no variation, you
can see a magnetic or an electric field separately from each other.
But when there is a variation in time, always must be present both in some way or another.
This is the reason why physicists speak of oscillating electromagnetic fields, unifying with the concept
of electricity and magnetism in a unique and inseparable physical entity, a concept that is central
in Maxwell's equations, the electromagnetic field or the electromagnetic waves.
In fact, this can be visualized in the image here with an electric and magnetic component oscillating
in time and travelling in space up to the speed of light.
Electric and magnetic forces have a direction and the strength and for this reason are represented graphically
as across the length of which indicate the magnitude of the field in each point of space and its direction
is it is the orientation of the acting force.
Mathematically, one represents these so-called errors by vectors see also more information on this
in the mathematical review in the appendix for more information about this as shown in the figures,
it has become a convention to level the vector of the electric force.
Was it was a capital letter E and that of the magnetic one with capital letters B formally, each component
of an electromagnetic field can be represented by a function of these vectors changing in time while
moving along that that direction.
The oscillation, the oscillation plain of the electric field in the figure, the vertical plane determines
the so-called polarization plain of the wave.
Remember, always there are two waves can have the same wavelength or frequency, if you prefer, in
the same direction of propagation.
But can also have different polarizations, the orientation of this plane determines the orientation
of the polarization of the wave.
In this case, we have vertical polarization, but of course, any other orientation is possible as
the horizontal one or any other in between.
It can be shown that since the electric field is a result of a changing magnetic field in time and vice
versa, the electric vector must always be perpendicular to the magnetic one.
And as you can see through this oscillatory field, we can associate a wavelength lambda, which is
the measure of the waves size, so to speak, or more precisely, the length between two identical field
vectors with the same amplitude and direction.
Or to put it more simply, twice the distance between two points, well, the field is instantaneously
zero.
Now, how do we know that light is or behaves like a wave?
Well, it is because of the interference phenomena.
To illustrate this, let us take these two waves which have the same amplitude and are in phase like
the one in the left, the left picture, which means that the peak or the valley values, say, of the
electric field of one wave is coincidental in time and space with a peak and valley values of another
wave.
In this case, we will have a peak to peak superposition and they will sum up to form a single wave
with larger amplitude by what is called.
Constructive interference.
This is called constructive interference because they construct upon each other.
Whereas in the case of the opposite situation, that of two overlapping waves with the same amplitude
still, but in this case in a. face like shown here in the right picture.
Then one has a peak to valley superposition, which leads to a destructive interference, and the resultant
signal will be zero because these two waves subtract each other's.
For a situation which is in between constructive and destructive interference, where two or more waves
eventually with different amplitude and phases come together and interfere, then of course you will
get something less regular, quite complicated and not so nicely ordered with a somewhat fuzzy superposition
of waves.
A typical example of this is what you observe when you throw stones into a pond and you get the pattern
where you have some places where the waves add up, other substract or something in between.
We will look at another example of this soon.
But first of all, let's say that this puts us now in a position to describe properly interferons phenomena.
Now we can ask, how precisely do intersecting waves add or subtract from each other?
This can be described very nicely with modern calculous, modern mathematics, and let's just have an
intuitive understanding of these things.
Let us add two ways this functions.
So one of the TMZ to to see the appendix for more insights on how functions are used to describe waves
here, it should only be said that, of course, the X coordinate.
Tells me something about the position we are measuring, the amplitude of the waves, one, two and
three at what instant of time?
These two waves could be representatives of the amplitude of the electric or magnetic field of two light
beams, for example, to keep things simple, let us consider the case of two waves with a different
frequency, but both having the same amplitude like in this case.
We won't go into the calculations, but one can show how with the above described mathematical structure,
the interference resulting from the superposition of both fields looks like the resulting signal shown
in the lower left hand side figure here.
This function still has negative values, and therefore it would not make much sense to use it as a
measure of an intensity of light resulting from this overlap, because, after all, a negative intensity.
Well, I don't know what it means.
It's something meaningless and meaningless concept in physics.
Intensity that we perceive with our eyes must always be something that is described by a positive valued
function.
Therefore, what one does is to square these values, since, as you know, the square of any number,
be it positive or negative, always gives a positive value.
And this is what is done in physics to obtain a light intensity from the electromagnetic oscillatory
field it represents.
One might also ask, why does the second power, why not the force power?
Well, it turns out that the second the square, the squaring of function and taking this as the intensity
of a wave.
It works.
It is the best way to describe how things work out there in the real world.
And the other powers, well, they would work not as good as this in this case, because also the force
power gives always a positive number.
And this is a matter of debate.
Until today, it is seen as something that is not completely clarified, especially in quantum mechanics
with the so-called born rule.
And we will see this later.
But for now, just accept it, we'll see this later and discuss it more in detail.
So taking the square models of the some of these fields leads to the lower right hand side interference
better.
The squared modulus is used because the two functions are usually represented by complex numbers, CNN,
the appendix.
As you can see for this particular case, one obtains to intensity maximum, a couple of them small
and the other two much larger in which appear arranged.
Alternatively, along the horizontal x axis.
Notice that this pattern results only for a particular time t reality, one should say that these peaks
oscillate, changing their intensity with time passing by.
But for light, this oscillatory movement is so extremely fast that it is even not detectable, even
not with this most advanced modern measuring devices.
Keep in mind that the frequency of light take, for example, of yellow light is about five times ten
to the power of 14 hertz.
That is a 500000 billionth of oscillating oscillations per second.
Therefore, since the oscillatory phenomena of the electric and magnetic fields of light occur on a
timescale well beyond the measurable domain for most practical applications, one can just take the
average intensity and ignore the time parameter.
And which turns out to be ours, turns out to be also very good, approximate approximation.
That's why we will frequently skip the time parameter in the description of the slaves and simply write
them as waves with spatial dependence without the time parameter Assai X.
But this will depend from time to time.
We will see this then.
At any rate, the important message to get here is that of how waves interfere and that their intensity
results in constructive and destructive interference patterns.
You said you should now have at least a clear, intuitive understanding of the above described interference
phenomena because it is something we will meet over and over again.